At 6:00 a.m.,
my husband and I were woken up
by a loud bang on the door.
As soon as my husband had opened the door,
people burst in shouting,
“Everyone on the floor!”
I saw them taking my husband into the kitchen
and heard them
very aggressively
ordering him to do something.
Then I heard some noise, and I realized
that he was being beaten.
My husband, Feliks, and I
were on our way back from the shopping mall
to the car park.
A jeep with tinted windows
blocked our path, and people
with weapons
jumped out, shouting:
“On the ground!
Don’t move!”
We were thrown against the vehicle.
Feliks was sent
to a pretrial detention facility,
where he spent a year.
From the very first bang on the door,
I began praying to Jehovah
for wisdom, calmness,
and for holy spirit
so that I could make the right decisions
and act in the right way.
And for the whole day, I was praying.
Jehovah answered all my prayers,
and I felt that he was close at my side.
Before each court hearing
when I was very afraid
and felt overwhelmed by emotion
and couldn’t calm myself down,
it was prayer
that helped me to settle down.
When they took us for interrogation,
I started panicking and, at that moment,
I realized that I needed
to meditate on something positive.
So I thought,
‘I need to sing our songs.’
And just one song came into my mind:
“He Will Make You Strong.”
It really strengthened me.
Those words
about how Jehovah gave his Son for us
show he loves us and will never leave us.
Brothers and sisters
pray and tell me
that they are praying for me.
It gives me the feeling that I am part
of a large family.
After the interrogation,
he was sent home.
My husband and I
continue to stick to our spiritual routine.
We continue to conduct family worship,
and we are always in the ministry.
Our brothers and sisters
constantly support us.
They write kind words;
they commend us;
they send us
encouraging scriptures from the Bible.
In September 2019, Feliks was found guilty
and sentenced to three years
in a general regime colony.
When he and the other brothers arrived there,
they were beaten up by officers
from the colony.
Feliks told me
that he prayed
while he was being beaten,
and he noticed that at that moment,
he stopped feeling the pain.
While he is behind bars,
Feliks tries to conduct
family worship with me by letters.
He picks certain themes
and some specific questions.
Then I do research
in the publications
and send back what I find.
The scripture at Isaiah chapter 30
really strengthens me,
where it says
that “your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
Although I tend to worry,
I understand that calmness is expressed
by fully trusting in Jehovah.
I have become stronger
because thanks to Jehovah,
in a way, I have developed almost a shell
against the difficulties
that used to scare me.
That confidence and faith help me.
Jehovah was with me,
and he will remain
close by me,
and we will be made stronger thanks to him,
and we will get through these trials.